---
layout: post
title: Connect Yourself
date: 2014-11-14 14:24
excerpt: Take a moment to compare how people interact with strangers in any kind of public transportation that takes more than half an hour to reach its' destination. On one hand, older people generally like small-talk and social aspect of a trip, on the other teenagers and young adults prefer to close themselves up, put on earbuds and listen to music. Why the difference?
categories: Life
---

As some of you may know, my daily commute takes a while. It will take a while before I find myself an apartment (approximately early 2015), so for now I have no choice other than to take a bus to Kraków (~1 hour long), every single workday. I wanted to share with you an observation many of you might be already familiar with, but everytime I'm in a bus I find it pretty striking.

Take a moment to compare how people interact with strangers in any kind of public transportation that takes more than half an hour to reach its' destination. On one hand, older people generally like small-talk and social aspect of a trip, on the other teenagers and young adults prefer to close themselves up, put on earbuds and listen to music. Why the difference?

I believe it comes down to our *modern* upbringing and the fact that we are often actively encouraged not to count on anybody else. We live in a solitary society, where your success is your own. You must work yourself, to earn money for yourself, to be spend it on yourself and be happy - yourself. However, humans are social animals and we yearn for more friends, colleagues, people to share all that time, money and daily adventures with. Sure enough, in countries where family is one of the most important values (like in Poland), we emphasize our interpersonal relations on it. The rest of our free *social time* we spend on our friends, however, how many of us are actually **brave enough** to talk to a stranger on the street or it a bus? Often times it's even impossible, due to the mentioned earbuds, and trying to get the person's attention will likely make you look rude or like an idiot. There are obviously some tricks to bypass that and make you look cool and outgoing in the process, so you might as well test your improvisation skills!

Now, I have to wonder, how many people in the bus or on the street would like to actually get to know a stranger they find, well, attractive - be it for the looks (the most obvious reason), for the book they read, the style they rock and so on. I believe that many, although only a handful is able to find the courage to speak up and strike a conversation. The infamous fear of rejection is a real thing, although admittedly a very rare occurence. In my lifetime I was *rejected*, so to speak, only once (*no, I'm busy, sorry*) which wasn't even half bad. Most of the time people are absolutely willing to chat, given they have time, they find you interesting or attractive, and of course - you make the first step. The ability and courage to do that, to open up conversations like that, comes with practice, and yes, you can get rid of your shyness. Moreover, it presents you as an approachable, confident person, which is always a plus for both guys or girls.

The subject of the conversation doesn't really matter as long as it's not senseless babbling for the sake of it. Even the most common stuff, like weather, can evolve into something much more substantial. You can always rely on cultural norms in your environment. In Poland, for example, people love to complain - so whenever you feel like some of your plans turned out bad, your boss is rude and or your mother-in-law is totally a yeti, that's a sure bet, people enjoy that kind of stuff here. You can ask for time, pretend you're new to the place, ask for directions and follow up from there. Improvise! Talk to others, stop listening to that mp3s when a handsome guy or a beautiful girl sits next to you (and will for the next hour)!
