---
layout: post
title: Four Horsemen
date: 2014-11-11 16:34
excerpt: The modern day Four Horsemen - a rapacious financial system, escalating organised violence, abject poverty for billions and the exhaustion of the Earth's resources.
categories: Politics
---

>The fact is most people think that what a bank does, is lend you money that someone else has put in the bank previously. But what a bank actually does - what a commercial bank does - is to create money, from nothing, and then lend it to you at interest. If I do that, if I manufacture money in my own home, it's called counterfeiting.  If an accountant creates money out of nothing in the company account, it's called cooking the books. But if a bank does it, it's perfectly legal. And, so long as you allow fraud to be legalized, then all kinds of problems are going to pop up in the economic system that you can't do anything about.

I have recently seen a film, which not so much changed my view of the world, as it has strengthened and cemented my current opinions. Now, I am familiar with the concept that people watch or read only things they agree with (hence the prevalent content curation on Google searches, Youtube, you name it), so some of you might play that card. I know that as much as my political views are widely regarded by majority of my friends as leftist or even Marxist, which is pretty funny, given that I'm a capitalist and I really can't see any better way of maintaining a stable and successful economy. There is, however, a catch people either have no idea about (that's the majority, right there) or work hard to conceal. Capitalist ideals as well as old classical economics have been pushed to the margin, paving the way to neo-classical, corporation-friendly environment, as well as socialist practices like bailing out the banks in trouble (and bail-outs are often times based on plain threats). Alright, I digress, to the point then.

<iframe width="1280" height="720" src="//www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/5fbvquHSPJU?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen="allowfullscreen"></iframe>

This is an independent documentary which, and I quote, is "*free from mainstream media propaganda -- the film doesn't bash bankers, criticise politicians or get involved in conspiracy theories. It ignites the debate about how to usher a new economic paradigm into the world which would dramatically improve the quality of life for billions*". First sentence is definitely true (and by saying that I mark myself as a paranoid communist in the eyes of many), I completely agree on the role of modern media. Sports in particular are given extraordinary attention, as they are exceptionally good at what they offer for elites in power - means to divert attention.

Look around. There's an enormous amount of apathy in people, they frankly don't give a damn about what's going on in the world and/or their country. Even if they realize, *hey, something's wrong*, there's a prevalent feeling of helplessness, ie. *I can't change the world myself*. That's one of the results of mass media, curated carefully not to encourage people to contest the status quo. Football matches, soap operas, You Can Dance, Got Talent, X-Factor and all that shit. Surely this is entertaining to some, but the main reason it's there in such capacity is to lull people into inaction and said apathy. All that to groom the gray mass of people into manageable herd. Elites need a slightly different indoctrination to be useful to the big business, so that comes in form on New York Times, Wall Street Journal and the like.

>I have never let my schooling interfere with my education.

The same, at least in principle, is true for schools and, to the lesser extent, universities. In most public schools (all the way from primary to high) students are taught to accept whatever is written in the course handbook. Moreover, try questioning teacher's knowledge when you're 16 years old. Schools are the first institutions in a young person's life to teach them obedience, even better if it's blind. Nevermind your grades, but you must be in class on time and listen to the guy preaching something he often barely understand himself. In universities, especially older ones, the situation is more varied, free speech and thought are more established, yet in economics classes, as the film underlines (and I have experienced first hand during my own studies), the most focus is put into teaching people principles of neo-classical economics (which are slowly but surely destroying our way of life). More about both classical and neo-classical theories in the film itself, if you aren't already familiar.

>Greed is the fundamental kind of ingredient for the immoral economy. The problem is not that there is not enough in the world. People say that there is poverty, so we have to create more wealth. There is enough in the world for everybody's need - as Mahatma Gandhi said, but no for anybody's greed.

Frankly, this article could go on, and on, for at least half an hour worth of reading, but I don't really feel like writing so much when you can simply watch that film. In addition, I would feel much better if someone would actually like to talk to me about issues mentioned or related there, than to simply write a blog post about them. As much as I enjoy writing, I love talking to people even more. That's what the main theme and, so to speak, the moral of the *Four Horsemen* - the more people think for themselves and understand things that are happening, the bigger our chances of actually changing the world. Every criticism in the video is systemic, it doesn't bash on any group, be them bankers, terrorists or journalists. I strongly believe that everyone, in every group, wants the very same things out of life and is not interested in hurting others. We, as humans, have created the world as it is right now, along with the problems that plague it, and henceforth we are the only ones able to do something about it, given that we understand all the issues in our governments, banking systems, laws and ways of life.

If you didn't already, please, watch the film and remember. Challenge it then, try to find faults within the video, look for evidence for and against arguments presented there. Make your own, sound judgement of which you are perfectly capable. Make up your mind whether you agree or not. Those are not hard, complicated issues but problems taking toll on all of us. After you've judged the film, the people there and me, drill this into your mind and do not let **anyone** in your family, work or school change that perception. Be free.

>Dedicating oneself to a great cause, taking responsibility and gaining self-knowledge is the essence of being human. A predatory capitalist's truest enemy and humanity's greatest ally is the self-educated individual, who has read, understood, delays their gratification and walks around with their eyes wide open.

