---
layout: post
title: Thank You
date: 2015-01-03 15:02
excerpt: I am a very difficult man, and that is not a good thing at all. In the past years I have become increasingly unwilling to trust anyone, because everybody lies. This is because I am a rare (these days, at least) type of person that you can trust not to break my word.
categories: Life
---

I am a very difficult man, and that is not a good thing at all. In the past years I have become increasingly unwilling to trust anyone, because everybody lies. This is because I am a rare (these days, at least) type of person that you can trust not to break my word. It is never easy for me to commit to anything, but if I say I'm going to do X, you can be absolutely certain, that X is going to be done, no matter how hard, no matter the excuses. Unfortunately this characteristic is all but forgotten, most of us are willing to break promises on more than one occasion, and only a written, legal agreement (breaking of which results in punishment) is a solid guarantee of delivery.

> Nie myśl, co może się zepsuć, a skoncentruj na tym, co może być piękne.

People often find absolutely outlandish reasons to justify their behaviour, but the reason itself is never related to themselves. Often, one can change their mind spontaneusly, based on an event that - in reality - doesn't change **anything**. Yet, **after** that decision is made, everything changes instead: relationships, trust, emotions.

I have allowed myself to trust a person in full, which I didn't for... I don't even know how many years. For the first time in my life, I was completely convinced, that I would never be hurt if I let someone closer. For the short period of time, I experienced something which, in my life is pretty much a fairy tale.

I was **sincerely** happy - and I mean it, not the sorrow behind a smile, but actually **happy** - first time ever, and I was not scared that this will pass tomorrow or next week.

As of Friday, this is no more. To be honest, I don't really know what to do with myself, and since there's no one I could talk to, I'm writing a blog post no one will read (I know my "readership"). I know it sounds really dramatic, but I am just very sad and I cannot keep everything inside myself anymore.

How is that someone can so truly and honestly love you, knowing full well you are the best possible match, only to change their minds halfway? Millions of common interests, views on the world, chemistry and sexuality that's so strong it's just radiating. Those beautiful, big eyes and smile I just couldn't resist.

Call it magic.

All that's left at is the memory, and maybe I'm really oldschool, but this is something that no one will ever take away from me. It is like a book, like Shadow of the Wind, I can always read. This will not pass in a few weeks, most likely it won't pass in months, but frankly I don't even want it to pass.

No matter how sad I am at the moment, I was sincerely happy for the first time in my life and I cannot thank you enough for that. For the short time, I was truly sure that **nothing** will fuck it up and since we understand each other - even if there would be obvious fights, we'd fix that together. I was absolutely sure that I am the perfect one for you and you are the perfect one for me. I still think that's true, I just don't really understand why such a small thing have destroyed absolutely everything, given that neither you nor me will find a person like that again. You know you won't, and leaving not to hurt me is just senseless.

> Nie myśl, co może się zepsuć, a skoncentruj na tym, co może być piękne. Bo może być tak, jak zawsze marzyłaś, a nie tak, jak było dotychczas z innymi.

**Thank you**. The biggest thank you I could ever say.

One thing I wasn't expecting is that such a small thing can make you forget all of your dreams. Every single common trait, all of the feelings, every plan and hope, everything. Maybe you'll remember that someday.

I will be waiting.

> Nie żeby coś, ale tęsknię :'(